What is Fat Free CRM?

An open source CRM designed to be
highly customizable; elegant in simplicity.

How do I get started?

Grab the code from GitHub
deploy it to your favourite host.

What

Fat Free CRM is an open source
Ruby on Rails-based customer relationship management platform. Out of the box it features group collaboration, campaign and lead management, contact lists, and opportunity tracking.

My thanks go to early adopters, beta testers, and open source enthusiasts for overwhelming positive feedback, words of encouragement, and inspiration. Keep your ideas coming!

The project goal is to spur CRM innovation by providing clean code base that can be easily extended by developers. Check it out and fork away!

Awesome CRM Features

manage leads, build campaigns, search, open source, free, lead scoring



    Guides
    Github
    Demo
    Issues
    User Group
    Developer Group
    RDoc API

Fat Free CRM Guides
Guides Index ▸

These guides are designed to make you immediately productive with Fat Free CRM, and to help you understand how all of the pieces fit together. They are written by the authors of Fat Free CRM as well as members of the Fat Free CRM community.
Getting Started

Overview

    An introduction to Fat Free CRM

Installation

Setup Linux or Mac OS

    Installing Fat Free CRM on Linux or Mac OS X
Setup Heroku

    Setting up a Heroku instance for Fat Free CRM
Setup Microsoft Windows

    Installing Fat Free CRM on Microsoft Windows
Upgrading Fat Free CRM

    Notes on the important changes between different version of Fat Free CRM

Configuration

Loading Demo Data

    Load sample data to test out Fat Free CRM
Site-wide Settings

    Configure your Fat Free CRM installation

Navigating the User Interface

Contacts

Accounts

Tasks

Opportunities

Leads

Campaigns

The Permissions Tab

Navigation Bar

Digging Deeper

Running as a Rails Engine

    Run Fat Free CRM within a separate Rails application
Email Dropbox

Rake Command Reference

Available Plugins

Creating Custom Field Plugins

Providing Feedback

Frequently Asked Questions

Release Notes

Developers

Using Zeus to speed up development

Running tests

Creating a plugin

Lazy Load Hooks

Callback Hooks

Localization Guidelines

The Countries Problem and How to Fix It

Community

Security

Fat Free CRM Contributors

Contributing to this guide

These guides are maintained by our volunteer community. Please read the Contribution Guide for more information on how you can contribute to the documentation or any other aspect of Fat Free CRM.


Fat Free CRM TravisCI Code Climate
An open source, Ruby on Rails customer relationship management platform (CRM).

Out of the box it features group collaboration, campaign and lead management, contact lists, and opportunity tracking.
Create Contacts
Contacts 	Manage Opportunities
Opportunities 	Edit Accounts
Accounts 	Create Tasks
Tasks

Pull requests and bug reports are always welcome!

Visit our website at http://www.fatfreecrm.com/
Rails 4 support

The master branch is now on Rails 4.2. However, there is a Rails 3.2 branch available if you still need to use it. Please note that subsequent gem releases will focus on Rails 4 (v0.14.0+ as yet unreleased).
Important security note

Please note that several severe vulnerabilities have been fixed recently. You should upgrade to the most recent 0.13.x version or higher. See the security vulnerabilities page for more details.
System Requirements

    Ruby 2 (2.2 recommended)
        Ruby 1.9.3 is no longer compatible (final gem release tag v0.13.6)
        Ruby v1.8.7 was supported until v0.11.4 (see https://github.com/fatfreecrm/fat_free_crm/tree/ruby1.8)
    MySQL v4.1.1 or later (v5+ is recommended), SQLite v3.4 or later, or Postgres 8.4.8 or later.
    ImageMagick (optional, only needed if you would like to use avatars)

(Ruby on Rails and other gem dependencies will be installed automatically by Bundler.)
Installation

Please view one of the following installation guides:
Setup Linux or Mac OS

Installing Fat Free CRM on Linux or Mac OS X
Setup Heroku

Setting up a Heroku instance for Fat Free CRM
Setup Microsoft Windows

Installing Fat Free CRM on Microsoft Windows
Running Fat Free CRM as a Rails Engine

Run the Fat Free CRM gem within a separate Rails application. This is the best way to deploy Fat Free CRM if you need to add plugins or make any customizations. Note that it is not yet simple to 'bolt' Fat Free CRM into your existing rails project, but we're heading in that direction.
Upgrading from previous versions of Fat Free CRM

Please read the Release Notes document for more detailed information on upgrading from previous versions.
Resources
	
Home Page: 	http://www.fatfreecrm.com
Guides: 	http://guides.fatfreecrm.com
Online Demo: 	http://demo.fatfreecrm.com
Github Project Page: 	http://github.com/fatfreecrm/fat_free_crm
Feature Requests and Bugs: 	http://support.fatfreecrm.com/
RDoc API: 	http://api.fatfreecrm.com
Ruby gem: 	https://rubygems.org/gems/fat_free_crm
Twitter Commit Updates: 	http://twitter.com/fatfreecrm
User's Google Group: 	http://groups.google.com/group/fat-free-crm-users
Developer's Google Group: 	http://groups.google.com/group/fat-free-crm-dev
IRC Channel: 	#fatfreecrm on irc.freenode.net
For Developers

Fat Free CRM is released under the MIT license and is freely available for you to use for your own purposes. We do encourage contributions to make Fat Free CRM even better. Send us a pull-request and we'll do our best to accommodate your needs.

Specific features that are not 'Fat Free' in nature, can be added by creating Rails Engines. See the wiki for information on how to do this.

Tests can easily be run by typing 'rake' but please note that they do take a while to run! Alternatively, you can see the test build status over at our travis page
Main contributors

    Michael Dvorkin (@michaeldv) - Founding creator
    Steve Kenworthy (@steveyken) - Maintainer
    Nathan Broadbent (@ndbroadbent)

See the contributors graph and the contributors file for further details.
License

Fat Free CRM Copyright (c) 2008-2014 Michael Dvorkin and contributors.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
